# To-do List API: A FastAPI CRUD App

## Objectif:
 Build a CRUD TO DO List application to manage your daily tasks, using Python and Fast API, and Hosted in the AWS cloud.

## Tools:
- **Infrastructure provisionning** : AWS CDK with TypeScript for infrastructure,
- **Serverless** : AWS Lambda
- **Database** : AWS DynamoDB
- **Code** : Python
- **RestAPI** : FAST API 
- **Testing** : PyTest

## Steps:

<!--#### CRUD app architecture
#### ðŸ—ï¸ What are we building-->
#### Infrastructure with AWS CDK
#### Creating the AWS DynamoDB Table
#### Create the AWS Lamnda function
#### Create the Lambda function URL
#### Deploy our CDK Infrastructure
#### Python FastAPI application code
#### Package our Python Dependencies for Lambda
#### Implement CRUD operations
#### Testing CRUD API by hand




## API Folder

The `/api` folder contains the Python FastAPI code.

## Infrastructure Folder

The `/todo-infra` folder contains the CDK code to deploy all the infrastructure
(Lambda function and DynamoDB table) to your AWS account.

You must have [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) configured, and
[AWS CDK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/home.html) installed on your machine.

First, install the node modules.

```bash
npm install
```

Then run bootstrap if you never used CDK with your account before.

```bash
cdk bootstrap
```

Before you can deploy you need to build the front-end folder. Go into the `todo-site` folder and
build the NextJS app.

```bash
npm run build
```

Then go back to the `todo-infra` folder and deploy the stack. The site won't work yet because you'll need to get your API endpoint and update the front-end code too (see below).

```bash
cdk deploy
```

## Frontend Folder

The `/todo-site` contains the NextJS frontend that interfaces with the CRUD API. If you want to
test it with your endpoint, then don't forget to change `todoApiEndpoint` and `userId` to your own
API (in `pages/index.tsx`).

First, go into the `index.tsx` file and update the API route to the one you generated by your CDK deploy.

```typescript
// TODO: Update this URL to your own API endpoint!
const todoApiEndpoint: string =
  "https://XXXXXXX.lambda-url.ap-southeast-2.on.aws";
```

Install the node modules.

```bash
npm install
```

Run the development server locally.

```bash
npm run dev
```

Build and export.

```bash
npm run build
```

This will create static site assets to the `/out` folder in the front-end folder.

## Test Folder

This contains the Pytest integration tests you can use to test your endpoint directly. Don't
forget to change your `ENDPOINT` to the one you want to use (in `api_integration_test.py`).

You can run the test like this (but you have to have `pytest` installed):

```bash
pytest
```

<!--https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7dgQRVqF1N0-->
<!--
# todo infra
// install AWS CDK 
npm install -g aws-cdk
// use the AWS Cloud Development Kit (CDK) to initialize a new project with TypeScript
cdk init --language typescript

---

### TroubleShooting:

Error:
{
  "errorMessage": "Unable to import module 'todo': No module named 'pydantic_core._pydantic_core'",
  "errorType": "Runtime.ImportModuleError",
  "stackTrace": []
}
Workaround:
I had the same error this morning. I checked the release notes of FastAPI: new release 0.100.0 has some changes wrt Pydantic. I don't understand all of them, but a quick & temporary workaround to my problem is to version pin FastAPI==0.99.0. Hope that helps for you as well.

-->
